# Latent variable models of neurons and behavior for tracking learning

What I'd like to do for this project is come up with a latent variable model, where the latent variable emits two observations per time index. One observation will represent behavioral data colleceted from animals (such as mice, rats, monkeys, or people), and the other latent varible will represent neural data collected at the same time. The latent variable will need to jointly explain the dynamics of both data modalities. I'm particularly interested in applying this in a learning context -- one where the animals are undergoing de-novo task acqusition. One obvious model in this case is a hidden markov model (HMM). The latent variables in the HMM can be interpreted as the different stages of task acqusition. However, I'd like to make it a bit more unconstrained and use an infinite HMM, where I don't pre-specify the number of latent states apriori. I'd also like to compare and consider models where the latent state is not restricted to be discrete. One can imagine that an animal's behavior slowly drifts over time, and this type of change can be better described with a continuous latent variable, where perhaps the dynamics are described by $z_k = z_{k+1} + \epsilon$ where $\epsilon \sim Normal(0, 1)$, and $z \sim Normal(\mu_z, \sigma_z)$. Additoinally, given these two broad family of models, one where the latent variables are continuous and one where they are discrete, I'd like to perform model comparison to see when and where each type of model explains the data better, and to potentially relate this to behavioral signatures of learning.